Hello this is Carol from for example dot com.
And welcome to the 20:9 tutorial on algorithmic trading for beginners and the previous tutorial we discussed
testing and optimizing our algorithmic trading system.
And in this tutorial we're going to learn how to add a filter to all four X robot in front of you here
you can see the results of our most recent test which we conducted in the previous tutorial.
And as you can see from the chart here our algorithmic trading system did really well the balance on
that count increased from $10000 to just over 17 and a half thousand dollars in a period of six months.
And in that timeframe approximately 130 trades were conducted.
So what we will be trying to do today is improve this outcome by adding a filter and moving average
filter to our trading system.
So let's quickly go back to the algorithmic trading system blueprint and look where we are at now.
So we have successfully implemented the blue bit which is responsible for checking the correct time.
We've implemented the bread bit which is responsible closing any existing orders.
We've done most of the green bit which sends a new orders to the market and all we have to do is implement
these two diamond shapes are here which are in fact the moving average filter.
So what does this look like on the chart.
Well let's quickly add a moving average here we'll use a period of 100 and so there is our moving average
and what a filter will do once it is implemented is it will restrict our algorithmic trading system
to only sending cell orders when the price is above the white line and only sending by orders when the
price is below the white line.
Have a look an example.
So this order for instance over here.
This is a sell order which was opened when the price was below the white line orders like that will
be eliminated from the final algorithmic trading system by the filter in a similar way.
This is a buy order which was opened when the price was above the white line.
This order will also be eliminated.
And as you can see in these two particular cases both of these orders traded a loss on their account.
And so eliminating them is a good thing and that means the filter will improve performance.
However every filter comes with a flip side and it will not only eliminate orders that create losses
but also some orders that create profits like these buy orders over here which are all above which are
all created when the price was above the white line.
All of them will be eliminated eliminated.
So at the end of the day for us it will be a question of balance.
We will have to assess whether the filter eliminates more losses or profits.
And based on that assessment will either choose to keep the filter or discard it.
What we cannot make that call until we've actually implemented the filter and tested our system.
So let's move on to Mitta Ed. And quickly add this filter and I say quickly because it is going to be
very easy to add it won't require much coding at all.
So what are we going to add.
First is an external variable which will be responsible for the period of the moving average thus allowing
the trader to trigger toggle the value or the period of the moving average.
Next we're going to.
So that's a period we're going into gold period and we're going to set it at a default value of 100.
Next we're going to add a variable within which we can store the value of the moving average itself.
So it's going to be a it's going to be a static variable is going to be a normal variable which we will
recalculate on every tick and that's fine.
So I'm just going to add an extra space here to separate this variable from the static variables.
And so how do we calculate the value of the moving average on a given bar.
This is something you chose We haven't discussed this previously in our course and that is because our
course is designed for beginners.
It is a course to get started in them kill for and working with indicators is a bit more of an extensive
topic and it does require a bit more of an advanced level in Q4.
However having said that I will also note that working with the moving average is very simple and I'm
sure you will pick up this code really easily.
So what we need to type in here is the name of the function that calls the returns the value of the
moving beverage and the function is called lowercase and I capital am capital A which stands for indicator
moving average and then we open the brackets.
And here we have to pass quite a few parameters.
So the first parameter is the symbol and we could hard code a used dollar a British Banias dollar here.
But we want to make our trading system universal So we want this forex robot to be the users of this
4 x robot to be able to attach it to any chart they like.
And so that's why here we're going to use the symbol function just as we do in the order send function
when we're creating new market orders.
So the symbol function will return the name of the symbol to which the expert advisers attached.
And then this name of the symbol will be passed onto the item automatically.
So that saves us a lot of work and makes us makes the system universal.
Same thing with the time frame function is asking for the period of the chart on which the expert advises
working on or more specifically where we want to calculate the moving average which is going to pass
on the result of the function called period which will be the timeframe of the current chart.
The next parameter might be a bit confusing.
It is also cold period just like this function which we used here.
But this period implies the period of the moving average.
And we have it here already so it is great to copy that.
Next is the moving average shift which we will set a zero next as a method of the moving average.
And we want to calculate it using the simple moving average method.
And that's why we'll put a zero.
If you'd like more information on which of the values you can set here.
Just go to the reference of this function by clicking one.
And there you will be able to find out how to use other methods of calculation.
Same way we're going to use a 0 for Applied price which means close price and the shift to shift is
an interesting variable and it is one of the more important ones.
They should shift and tells us on which bar we want to calculate the moving average.
And as I recall I can recall here within the square brackets we were specifying which bar we want to
calculate or for for which bar we went to retrieve the open price.
And 0 was the current bar one was the bar to the left of the current bar two was the bar to the left
of that bar and so on.
So the bars are numbered from zero onwards from right to left and we want to calculate the moving average
on bar number 1.
So there we go that's our calculation of the moving average.
Now we just need to add the actual checks and if we go back to our presentation or here we will see
that we need to check the value of the moving average after we've checked the price.
But before we've sent the orders.
So that's exactly what we'll do.
We checked the price here and we send the order here so this is where we need to check the main.
And same thing here.
So we're just in implemented right away.
So we want to see if the close price for by quarter is less than a.
And as you can see here I am using close one because I want to compare like for like I want to compare
the close by Rice on the first bar and the moving average on the first bar.
So if close one is less than M-I then I will send a byte order with a sell order.
We have to do something very similar but we will put an opposite condition close.
Price has to be above him.
So move this a bit close the bracket and there we go.
We should be done.
The only thing is before I have saved this I'm actually going to save this as Version 2.
So what that will let us do is allow us to have two different versions of a simple system so simple
system but just a normal one won't have the filter or simple system version 2.0.
We'll have the moving average filter in it and therefore we will be able to further compare them and
we will be able to use the one we want to use so we won't actually lose the original edition of the
algorithmic trading system so I'm going to compile that now.
No errors or warnings.
Let's quickly go to the terminal and see how this works.
So there you go simple system we're going to change to simple system version 2.0.
Well we're fine with these 10 140 whatever primers are here.
As you can see there's a new period a new period variable which has appeared and that controls the period
of the moving average.
So let's just quickly launch that in visual mode so we can see how the filter works.
I will zoom out.
Change the color of the filter and I will switch the grid off.
So as you can see here above the white line we only have red orange meaning cell and below the white
line.
We only have by orders.
And so every buy order starts below the white line which is correct.
And so that means the filter is working well and we have achieved what we wanted to achieve.
So that's the end of as programming expert advisor or algorithmic trading system and in the next to
Tauriel we're actually going to compare the performance before of the system before and after we added
the filter and we'll see how we can do some simple optimizations around that and maybe if we can make
our own rhythmic train system work better with the filter.
If not we'll have to discard it.
And I hope to see you at the next session which is promising to be really fun.
And until then happy coding.